Table of Content

[Naive Approach] Considering all possible subarrays – 
O(n^2) Time and O(1) Space
[Better Approach] Using Prefix and Suffix Sum – O(n) Time and O(n) Space
[Expected Approach] Using Kadane's Algorithm – O(n) Time and O(1) Space


1) [Naive Approach] Considering all possible subarrays –
 O(n^2) Time and O(1) Space

A simple approach is to consider every element as the beginning of the 
subarray, and calculate the maximum possible sum, which includes both 
circular and linear subarrays starting from that element.

2)[Better Approach] Using Prefix and Suffix Sum – O(n) Time and O(n) Space
In a circular array, the maximum subarray sum can be either the maximum 
normal sum, which is the highest sum of a non-circular array, or the maximum
 circular sum, which includes elements from both the start and the end of 
 the array. The normal sum can be efficiently calculated using Kadane's 
 algorithm. And, the circular sum is calculated by combining prefix sum and 
 suffix sum.

First, we will compute the maxSuffix array, where maxSuffix[i] stores the 
maximum suffix sum starting from any index >= i.
Then, as we iterate through the input array, we combine the prefix sum up to 
index i with the maxSuffix value at index i + 1 (to avoid double-counting the 
ith element) to calculate circular sum and take the maximum for all values of 
i.

3)[Expected Approach] Using Kadane's Algorithm – 
O(n) Time and O(1) Space
This approach is similar to the previous one, but the key difference is that 
we're using Kadane's algorithm to find the circular subarray sum as well. 
The maximum sum of a circular subarray can be defined as the total sum of the 
array minus the sum of a subarray in the middle. So, to maximize the circular 
subarray sum, we need to minimize the subarray sum.

Maximum Circular Subarray Sum = Total Sum - Minimum Subarray Sum.
If the minimum subarray sum equals the total sum of the array, we return 
the normal maximum subarray sum, because if all elements are negative, the 
circular sum would be zero, but the answer will be negative only

